---
title: "OSG User School 2019"
date: 2019-12-02 12:00:00 -0600
categories: School
---

The OSG User School 2019 was held at the University of Wisconsin–Madison on July
15–19.  This year’s event hosted 55 participants, drawn from a pool of 86
applicants.  These numbers are consistent with the past few years, taking into
account annual variation.

Participants included mostly graduate students with some post-doctoral
researchers, faculty, and staff from research institutions in the United States
(plus two from Canada and one each from Germany, India, South Africa, and
Spain).  The range of scholarly domains was very diverse, including physics,
biology, chemistry, medicine, engineering, statistics, social sciences, plant
sciences, neuroscience, and economics.  Participants were selected by
demonstrating need for large-scale computing and by being in a position to
transform their scholarly work through computation.  There were seven full-time
staff, plus others who helped at least part of the week, from UW–Madison,
Rutgers University, University of California San Diego, and University of
Nebraska Lincoln.

This year’s curriculum continued the tradition of focusing on hands-on practice
with a wide variety of user tools, providing a solid grounding for advanced and
theoretical topics later in the School as well as further learning afterward.
Much of the curriculum was carried over from 2018, with minor updates to stay
current.  This year, though, there was more discussion about accessing different
kinds of computing resources, such as graphics-processing units (GPUs), and
about expanding resource pools using commercial clouds, such as Amazon EC2.  The
larger changes reflected both changes in the technologies involved plus improved
pedagogical approaches based on experiences with past OSG User Schools and other
science end-user engagements.

All of the training materials from the School remain available online after the
event, to be available to others around the world and to serve as reference
material.  Participants also received several clear options for getting ongoing
help with their large-scale computing needs.  Plus, every participant left the
School with at least two ways to run jobs&nbsp;— an account on a UW–Madison
HTCondor submit node and an OSG Connect account&nbsp;— so that there are as few
barriers to computing and storage resources as possible.

<figure class="figure">
  <img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/osg-user-school-2019.png"
       class="figure-img img-fluid rounded"
       alt="OSG User School 2019 staff and participants">
  <figcaption class="figure-caption">
    Staff and participants of the OSG User School 2019.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

From formal training evaluations to informal comments and emails, the School was
clearly a success.  Participants were happy with the program, with how much they
learned, and with the new paths that are now open to them.  Further, most
participants completed a final written assignment after the event, describing a
research computing challenge and their plans for applying material from the
School to handle the challenge using distributed high throughput computing.
From these assignments, it is clear that most participants have concrete,
realistic plans to advance their research through computing, and many have begun
doing so already.

– Tim Cartwright
